---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/main/equity-chatbot-folder/visualisations/"}
---

Next -> [[Main/Equity chatbot folder/Risk Metrics\|Risk Metrics]]
Prev <- [[Main/Equity chatbot folder/Generating the portfolio\|Generating the portfolio]]

---

## Diversification
### Concept
A good portfolio is optimally diversified, i.e. *no eggs reside in one basket*. This can be measured by simple pie charts. The sectors of a pie chart should be more or less uniform. Excessively large sectors in a pie chart is an indicator of a poorly diversified portfolio. 
### Python Implementation

Code snippet:

```python wrap
market_cap_summary = portfolio_df['Market Cap Size'].value_counts()
    values = market_cap_summary.tolist()
    labels = market_cap_summary.index.tolist()
    fig, ax = plt.subplots(figsize=(10, 10))
    fig.patch.set_alpha(0)  
    ax.pie(
        values,
        labels=labels,
        autopct='%1.1f%%',
        textprops={'color': 'white'},  
        startangle=90
    )
    st.pyplot(fig)
    st.text('Market Cap Distribution')
```

---
## Key Metrics of a portfolio
### Concept

These are some metrics that enable a user to get a bird's eye view of the portfolio. Things like- 
- Total value
- Total Returns generated by the portfolio
- Daily Gains/losses
etc. 

help us understand the final effect of the contents of the portfolio.

Total Value: This is simply the summation of the number of shares in each stock multiplied by the price per share. 

$$
\sum(No. of shares \times Price per share )
$$
Total returns: This is the Sum of all the gains/losses earned by each share times the no. of shares over a period of time. Where the gains and losses is the difference between the current price of the share minus the price at the beginning of the time period. 

$$
\sum(no. of shares \times (Current share value - Initialsharevalue))

$$

Daily Gain/Losses: This is the 

---


Next -> [[Main/Equity chatbot folder/Risk Metrics\|Risk Metrics]]
Prev <- [[Main/Equity chatbot folder/Generating the portfolio\|Generating the portfolio]]